The Information Manifesto

The staying power of a civilization is based upon information. Without information, the civilization crumbles as seen in the Dark Ages, when society’s lack of education and strong dictatorships came together to create a social decline—a literal dark age. With information, but information that is controlled, societies can survive, but do not thrive. We see this in places like North Korea where access to information exists, but is censored and filtered at a state level so only what is approved for resale is actually observed by the eyes of the everyman. These society’s feign greatness but never really achieve it. Only when information flows freely do societies fully thrive…and in the society of the US, the free flow of information is severely threatened, legally, politically and corporately. The time has come for a new paradigm of information. 

I am not speaking of free speech per se, though they are inexorably tied and intrinsically related. Without free speech, information can not be free. If I am no longer free to speak my mind, then the information contained therein will never spread in an organic way and instead becomes stilted at best and at worst, is related to my own mind’s vault. Therefore, preserving true liberty is important to preserve information. Freedom of speech, though, is at risk of becoming strictly hindered at a political scale. It has been in vogue in America during my time to stifle the speech of Muslims, for instance, with many high profile political leaders attempting to undermine their own ideologies. The darkness of free speech, though, the burden that it must bear, is that all, even those we disagree with violently, are entitled to their own pulpits. To preserve freedom, all must first have it. A little freedom for a little group is not freedom at all; better to bind all of us in stocks than to deny only one the freedom of expression. At the more extreme end of the spectrum, however, this should also apply to those outliers that society in general has deemed unfit to serve: The diary of a murderer, a cannibal’s recipe book and the meanderings of a housewife’s boredom should all have equal representation on the shelves of a liberated society. Should one suddenly become more intrinsically valued than the other, a censorship and a great wrong has taken place; I would label censorship of any kind of speech, no matter how heinous a moral offense of a society that claims loudly to be truly free.  
At the risk of sounding cold, terrible and deeply disturbed I would contend that no greater offense against liberty has ever occurred than the banishment of child pornography. The exploitation of children is horrendous, no doubt. But to silence the expression of those that commit even the most heinous of acts, morally depraved as they may be, is to commit an equal or even greater sin against culture. The solution to child abuse is to catch and prosecute, as a free society has deemed within its bounds right to do, the abuser; it is not a solution to simply remove the offending bit of expression that most of us would deem disgusting to even contemplate. The rules of the many need not apply to art, expression and speech…indeed, when they do we are left with a hollow society devoid of any salt and pepper to season. Only when a society is truly liberated from their confinement of tedious mental exercises in what should or should not be considered “safe” speech does it finally exercise its ability to protect information. 

Today, we risk this freedom of speech. Politicians already aim to set themselves up as kings ready and willing to decide what speech should be free and legislate the dictionary by redefining in all their legalese the definitions of words like liberty and freedom. The Law has already prosecuted individuals for such innocuous crimes as sarcasm over text and it grows darker with each passing day. And the corporations of America govern it all, silently, behind the scenes, determining exactly what can and can not be seen. Google, with the push of a button, can change the course of history or alter elections by simply removing access to certain search results. Facebook has already done such experiments, influencing racial relations. 

And of course, this legislation of speech has had the desired effect of also paving the way for a legislation of information. Copyright is widely regarded as a quagmire mess, unable to keep up with progressing technology while also managing to still remain a thorn in the sides of both content creators and consumers. 

Copyright began as a way for content producers and governments to gather sweeping royalties from content in the Colonial era. Nearly everyone but the original content creator grew wealthy overnight. As with most government industries, copyright did not even itself with time so much as it grew to become a more hidden evil. Today, as miserable small minded people make their living filing useless copyright claims on internet videos that play too much of a song, copyright stifles innovation and creativity. 

Of course, all these laws can be traced back to a single identifying source: Money. If the silliness of regulation is the bane of freedom, then currency is the shackle that keeps it banished. Ultimately, money is a construct, a bit of information that has been deemed not only safe, but necessary, by the governments that enact it (all of them). Somehow, over the course of human development, money has grown its own rung on Maslow’s pyramid; if only people could awaken and realize just how foolish money really is. A revolution can not occur, a government can not collapse, until the market is destroyed and the currency reset. Ours is a capitalist society which many take to be indicative of total freedom and control. In reality, capitalism and so-called “free markets” are liberty-poor, built upon the feigned auspice of the freedom to innovate. But what people don’t realize is they have simply traded government regulation and control for that of corporate regulation and control—which in turn, is monitored by the government. It’s a round about way of getting raped the same. A dictatorship is built upon the size of your stick and how loudly you swing it about; a corporatocracy is built upon the size of your wallet and how deftly you can steal that of your neighbor. Under the guise of a “free-market” everyone thinks they can build the next Google or be the next Bill Gates. But you won’t and Google will see to that. They will buy you out by offering a pittance for your trouble (which will seem like a lot to the many who have had nothing for so long…even a dog’s vomit looks appealing to the man that is starving) and your corporate vision will terminate then and there, absorbed by the bigger fish. It’s the unfortunate reality that today is a day and age where we equate terms like “liberty” and “freedom” with clawing one’s way up an executive ladder only to be blinded by the smog at the top. You will get so far and no farther as They of the They Institute will quickly rule you expendable. You are not unique; you are not a person; you are not human; you have no goals, no desires, no dreams; you aren asset and you will conform; you are an asset and you are expendable; you are an asset and the money you make will be given to the company. Is this freedom? Is selling yourself into a corporate form of slavery worth more than self-governing, working your way into your own profession? You will make less as a tradesman, but you will make all that you make. As a corporate lackey you will make as much they pay you, even if your skill outweighs it. Sell your personhood for a scrap of meat, a piece of the pie they tell you…but a very small piece indeed and probably without a side of creme. This is your capitalism. This is your “free” market. This is your government of freedom. A modern slavery, where your worth is based upon legal precedent and regulated by billion dollar corporations, not upon ability or personal need. 

Currency is a construct of the mind, a made up bit of nonsense. It has no tangible product, no tangible space of existence and no meaning beyond what we, collectively, have agreed upon. Somewhere, someone decided that a dollar was worth so much and no more. Someone decided that a cup of coffee was worth two of them and that a brand new car was worth thirty-thousand. Now, did you vote on this? Did you create this currency? Did you decide the worth of the made up paper in your wallet? Of course not. A treasurer did. A congress did. A businessman did. And with the power of this inner working of currency manipulation a culture can be kept in check. Inflation, like currency, is a made up construct that exists for the sole reason of keeping a certain population in check. The American Dream, indeed. It sounds great as you are vomited it during your youth, but the reality is there’s just not enough Monopoly Money to go around. We can’t all be rich. We can’t all win the genetic lottery. And despite what your parents told you, the odds of becoming president are stoutly against you. Money brings with it power, but only for a few. How else could they keep the machine running? We will always need garbage collection and burger joints…or so they tell you. 

To counter these evils, then, a plan must be devised and I have laid out a simple series of premises to that end. These are based upon the following statements:

1. Information wants to be free. 
2. Information is neutral and unburdened from ownership.
3. Free speech is necessary for the spread and concoction of information.
4. The abolishment of managed currency is a requirement for True Liberty.
5. True Liberty exists outside governance and independent of it. Government may or may not exist, but its capacity should be limited and imposed upon by the freedom of information. 

The first three statements are mostly just requirements of what shall be called The Awakening. People must realize these statements and do so of their own accord. If they do not, then I have failed and any one that follows will also fail at this task. The spreading of propaganda is important in this regard: Flyers, posters, pamphlets, podcasts, text files…whatever can be used most effectively should be used to its fullest and when used, it should be concise, reasoned, rational and level-headed. People respond best to a plight—show them their plight and then show them a way out. 

As a means of passive protest, abolish copyright from your life. Use technologies such as BitTorrent to obtain your daily media. The goal is protest, not dissemination—do not imprison yourself by actively attempting to spread pirated material. You will be made an example of and become a criminal, not a martyr. Instead, follow in the footsteps of those like Aaron Swartz—steal what should already be public. A scientific journal spreading useful information that would benefit society is information wanting to be free; the latest pop song, less so. Do not give in. Do not pay for services like Spotify and especially do not pay for establishment services like individual songs or films. Instead, show the flawed nature of the system by overpowering it. Once copyright become an unviable business model, it will be changed. Corporations only under money and governments only understand lobbying through corporate value…thus, to change these institutions and alter the oligarchic structure of society you must take away their business model and force a change. 

Adopt open source tools to voice your opinion that free speech is important to you. Open source benefits from public vetting—everything is out in the open and the government can not make alterations to it without drawing public attention. Tools like Firefox for web browsing are far more useful and transparent than proprietary cousins. Avoid data mining companies such as Microsoft and Google—use DuckDuckGo instead. Show that you want to see how your products are made and that having control over your personhood online is important to your perception of liberty. 

The abolishment of currency sounds daunting, but is actually within the realm of possibility now thanks to modern cryptocurrency. Become your own bank. Adopt Bitcoin as your currency of choice. By using services like Shift you may now even use Bitcoin through a Visa card just like your bank would issue, though this is less than ideal. It is, however, transitionary and would allow you to make active steps against the banks now without requiring a dramatic overhaul. A more ideal solution would be to use traditional Bitcoin paper wallets to transfer money as a form of trade between merchants. At any rate, this puts you in far more control of your money. Bitcoin is a currency founded in math and only math. It derives its worth from computational power and the cryptographic strength of its own algorithm—not arbitrary wealth abstractions determined by economists and treasurers. It’s value is therefore tied to the hardware on which it is minted. 

Most importantly, though, in a truly liberated society, government is not needed. This is not necessarily a call to anarchy. A government can be used, but it should ultimately not be a requisite. A people should be able to govern themselves freely and a government should only be a mere shadow of that, a framework to establish the governance of all the people therein. It can be as limited or as strong as the people make it, so long as liberty is maintained. Speech must be free, currency must be unregulated and personalized and through these changes, information is thereby free and a government acts only in regards to information. Imagine if whistleblowers were not outlaws, but instead all information was always publicly open and available? How differently governments would act…This is true accountability. This is True Liberty. 

Rome did not fall in a day. It crumbled, slowly, from the poor choices of an angry people that failed to take control of their own government. They all understood the problems—the strings of bad leaders attested to as much—but they believed in the system to fix itself. There is no political system that will chastise itself; there is no politician that will volunteer themselves to the guillotine no matter what the public outcry is. Time and again we see this, and time and again, we fail to cleanse the office. Purification must be made. This is not the revolution—that comes later and it will come. This is the spark that ignites the demolition. Information comes first and as the outrage builds, we will produce a better society. 

This is the YouTube era, the Snapchat generation. Make no mistake, the revolution will be televised. And the whole world is watching. Make a difference. 